So we spend a lot of time talking
a lot of theory about code.
But it turns out at some point in my
career and together a bunch of other
engineers, I put together something
called a guide to testable code.
And I wanna kinda show you some of these
things because I think it's useful.
Now, these examples were done
back in the Java days, but
I think the ideas are still applicable and
useful in the JavaScript world as well.
So the examples of what we have here is we
identified when we were building code with
other engineers, there are four main
things that people got into trouble with,
which made the code hard to test.
And again, hopefully what I've tried to
convince you of in the last few hours is
that it's all about being able to take
control over the dependencies, right?
You wanna be able to
control the dependencies so
that you can unit test your code.
And so there are four main flaws that we
identified, constructor does real work.
Digging into collaborators,
brittle global state and
singletons, and class does too much.
And so I wanna go over most of these,
and by the way,
these are available on their website.
So you can take your time kind of to
go over it in a leisurely format.
What do we mean by
constructor does real work?
Let's find a piece of code.
Let's say you have a house, and
a house comes with a bedroom.
Notice what's happening inside
of the constructor of the house.
The house is constructing itself with a
bedroom, which means that in a unit test,
you can never, ever replace the bedroom
with a mock, or anything you want.
So if you wanted to write a test,
you would end up with like,
you make a new house inside
of your code base, and darn.
I'm stuck with the kitchen,
bedroom objects, and
everything else that was created as
the component decided it to be created.
Instead, what you wanna do is you don't
wanna do any work inside a constructor.
You just wanna take the values and
store them in so
that you can later say,
I have a dummy kitchen.
I have a dummy bedroom.
And so now when I instantiate the house
with dummy kitchen, dummy bedroom,
I can control these things and I can build
any kind of code that I want with it.
And again, this comes down to being
able to control the dependencies.
So let's look at another example.
We do work over here because in this case,
the constructor
of the garden configures the gardener
to do specific kind of things.
For example, in this case,
it configures it with a 12-hour workday,
and some set of boots that
it assigns to the gardener.
And so as a result, if you wanted to write
a test, all of a sudden, you are stuck
with this slow moving unit test because
you can't control how it was configured.
And so what you want is you wanna have
a constructor that doesn't do anything.
Your constructor should just ask for,
look, I need a gardener and
I expect the gardener to
be already configured so
that I don't have to do
any configuration myself.
The end result of that is that now you
can configure the gardener with, for
example, one minute workday so that you
can go through the tests quickly, right?
And you don't have to set
up complicated things.
And maybe this mock gardener doesn't even
need boots, and you can skip over that.
And so this is a way of making
your test easier to read and
reason about because you
are controlling things around them.
Now, you might say, constructors,
that's only for Java.
I don't really have constructors because
I'm doing functional programming in
JavaScript.
But again, I'm gonna argue that a lot of
your functions close over other things.
And when you close over other things,
it's the same exact thing as if you had
a constructor that you're closing over,
right?
So the work that you're closing over
should be something that can be easily
worked over.
Let's go digging into the collaborators.
So that's another example
of what you wanna avoid.
So, what are the warning signs?
So, objects are passed in, but
never used directly, instead,
we get a hold of some secondary
object on that primary object.
And we are violating the law of Demeter,
which basically means we're using a whole
bunch of dots to get a hold
of stuff that we want.
And typically,
things have these suspicious names,
like context, environment,
principle, container, manager,
something that's very generic, right?
So let's have a look to what we mean.
Here's an example of a tax calculator.
Notice the constructor does not work,
so that's good.
But now we wanted to compute sales tax,
and
what we get passed in is a user and
an invoice.
But notice that it doesn't really want
the user, it just wants to get address,
sorry about the strong,
that shouldn't be here, that's a typo.
It just wants the address, and
the reason why it wants address is
because it wants to know the locality,
and based on the locality, it will
determine what tax rate to apply, right?
And notice it doesn't want the invoice,
it really just wants the amount.
So really what we wanna write is
just that the tax table needs to get
a taxable rate from the address
to compute the amount.
And so a preferred way to do this,
is to pass in the address and the amount.
Because if you're passing it,
user and invoice,
then your test is complicated because
you have to make a bogus address,
you need to make a bogus user,
you need to make a bogus invoice.
Invoice needs to have probably a bunch of
products inside of it to make it work,
just so you can call the compute
cell stacks on the user and invoice.
Whereas if you don't
have a law of Demeter, or
if you don't violate the law of Demeter,
notice you can just create the address and
you can call the compute cell stacks
directly because you're comparing just
the stuff that you actually need, right?
So whenever you see functions that
look for other things, right,
this particular case, we are not
using what we were given, instead,
we were looking for what we actually need.
What you're asking for is more
complicated than what you actually need.
And because you're asking for something
that's more complicated than what you
actually need, the mocking code
that you end up writing for
becomes a lot more complicated as well.
And so it makes your life harder.
Here is another example where you're
passing a client and a request.
And then when you call login you're
saying, hey, from the request give me
a cookie, and from the authenticator,
call the authenticate on a cookie, right?
So better thing to do would be to pass
in the cookie and the authenticator,
rather than passing in something generic.
But then later you look up what you want,
you pass in something specific, the cookie
and the authenticator, cuz that's the only
thing that you need for the login, right?
And so the test here is complicated
because you have to create a lots
of mocks that mock out the RPCClient and
then mock up the ServletRequest.
Whereas in this case the test is
straightforward because you just create
a bogus cookie and a fake authenticator,
call it and
assert that it did actually get called.
So that's an example of how law of
demeter kinda makes the situation
a lot worse for you.
Global state, typically, you have some
global variable like this, private static,
cuz that's typically the way it's done,
and now you have a login service.
And then whenever the login service is
actually needed, people get hold of it.
So for example,
you have a method called getInstance().
And this getInstance creates your log
in service on as needed basis, right?
And so then typically you
need to start testing it, and
now you have to have a way of
resetting the global instance.
You typically create these methods for
reset for
testing and set for testing so
that you can work on it.
And a typical place you would use it is
you would say, let's say I wanna say,
isAuthenticatedAdminUser, I'm gonna
say loginService.getInstance, right?
And this creates a really complicated
test because you can't just say,
do this because you have
the wrong singleton in there.
Or maybe you forgot to clean up
the singleton from the previous run, and
you have the wrong one in there, right?
So you really wanna avoid that, and
instead, you just wanna say, hey look,
you have your LoginService which does
the implementation not as a singleton.
And then in your dashboard,
you just wanna pass in the loginService.
So you pass it in explicitly rather than
having the code look it up at runtime.
And by passing it in explicitly,
now writing tests become really easy
because you can just say
new AdminDashboard, and
I can pass in the mock login service,
and I can assert whatever I want.
Notice, this all repeats the same thing.
We wanna be able to get hold
of our dependencies, and
we wanna be able to do it in a way
that's very predictable, right?
And that's what kind of
allows us to do that.
The global stuff, like for
example, setting flags globally,
produces the same exact problem.
Because when you wanna write a test,
it's extremely difficult for you to make
sure that you have gone to every singleton
and set it to the correct state.
And also you're always running the risk
that if you add a new singleton,
then the subsequent tests will be failing
because the tests weren't aware of them
and didn't reset them properly.
And so now you can have a leakage
of information from one test to
the next test.
And of course,
if these tests are to be run concurrently,
that's another set of problems,
because concurrency also creates work.
And finally, this is just a good practice
of keep your code modular and simple,
and every single piece of code should
do something that's individual and
it's not complex.
Basically, you don't wanna have things
that have the word and inside of it.
Because that implies that there's multiple
responsibilities for this component.
What does it do?
This component logs you in and
makes sure that your user is created.
Those should be two separate things.
You shouldn't mix it together.
Because when you mix it together, your
unit test become complicated because your
mock can't just mock whether or
not you're logged in.
It now has to mock that
you can be logged in and
that you could create
a user if it doesn't exist.
And so
all of these things become a problem.
And so we put together this set of
things which we think are useful,
that you can share with your
co-workers and say, hey, look,
this is what a good
testable code looks like.